---
layout: post
title: Week of 1 Nov
---
<p class="indented">In Week 10 of Object Oriented Programming, Professor Downing introduced Project 4, called Darwin. As the name suggests, the project involves simulating the interactions of different types of animals between each other and the grid world. More so than the previous projects, the Darwin assignment emphasizes the paradigm of object oriented programming, including the aversion of getters and setters to maintain encapsulation and information hiding. In my opinion, the main roadblock to cross regarding this project was creating three well-designed classes that could interact with each other appropriately without revealing too much information about their implementations. Additionally, many of the concepts and techniques Downing has taught in lecture have been applied to this project, including default parameters and constant reference passing to accept R-values.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">Since the Darwin project was released this week, the lecture on Monday consisted of a brief synopsis of how to go about completing the assignment. On Wednesday, a guest speaker from Mutual Mobile talked about the apps and experiences he had while working at the company. As a result, Friday's lecture was the only one this week that involved learning new concepts in C++. For this particular lecture, Downing had the class implement a stack using the STL as the backing container. Although a lot of the material was review from previous programming classes, I found the exercise to be good practice for a potential test question for Exam 2.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is get familiar with initializer list syntax for constructors in C++, since this programming construct will prevent the class member variables from unnecessarily calling the default constructor on themselves when the object is constructed.</p>
