---
layout: post
title: Week of 6 Sept
---

<p class="indented">During the second week of CS 371P (Object Oriented Programming), Professor Downing introduced the first programming assignment for the class, called Collatz. The program is based on the Collatz conjecture, in which a number can be reduced to 1 after a certain number of cycles, called the cycle length. Upon completion, the code should calculate the maximum cycle length between two numbers and output the results. One of the more interesting parts of the assignment involved optimizing the code to calculate the results more efficiently. </p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">Downing introduced quite a few ideas that would improve the speed of the Collatz code. Such improvements included adding a cache to store cycle lengths for use at a later time, and using mathematical proofs in order to reduce the number of calculated cycle lengths for each range of numbers. Downing emphasized the importance that any number of possible algorithms could be developed in order to increase the efficiency of the program, even though the problem presented in the assignment is not necessary difficult to solve. </p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is the importance of starting early on the Collatz assignment in order to make sure all steps can be completed before the due date. Some of the tools such as Doxygen and git/GitHub may require a learning curve, and starting late may hinder the ability to do well on this particular project. Additionally, understanding and using the tool chain introduced in this project is extremely important for future assignments in the class which may require more complicated coding concepts and builds. </p>

