---
layout: post
title: Week of 18 Oct
---
<p class="indented">This week in Object Oriented Programming, Professor Downing went over the third project, called Allocator. He gave a rough overview of the methods that would be implemented in the assignment, including allocate(), deallocate(), and valid(). The premise of the coding assignment is to implement the heap using the simple idea of having sentinels at both ends of memory blocks to keep track of the amount of the space that has been used, as well as the remaining space left over for future allocations. For the duration of the week, my partner and I worked on completing the Allocator assignment. We found that the project was not particularly hard, although there were a couple bugs we came across that mostly involved incorrect indexing.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">For the rest of the week, Downing talked about memory allocation using new and delete, as well as explaining the importance of using the standard template library to abstract away the need to allocate and deallocate memory as a programmer. For example, instead of creating arrays on the heap, a programmer can use the vector class to initialize dynamic arrays with the benefit of not having to worry about memory leaks. I found this idea to be especially appealing in C++, since there is no garbage collector running in the background.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip-of-the-week is to create tests that not only check the correctness of the Allocator class but also print the contents of the array used by the Allocator. Viewing the contents of the array sped up debugging by quite a bit for my partner and me since we could see where our code was breaking.</p>
