---
layout: post
title: Week of 22 Nov
---
<p class="indented">With the conclusion of the thirteenth week of Object Oriented Programming comes the end to all programming assignments for the class. In my opinion, this last project, called Life, was my favorite project out of all 5 projects in the class. The assignment presented a good amount of object oriented design involving abstract and handler classes, and alleviated the stringent restraint of no getters and setters by allowing for an is_alive() method in the AbstractCell class. Additionally, Conway’s Game of Life is a classic computer science problem that creates amazing visual simulations from seemingly random setups. The project also gave a great introduction to the implementation of inheritance in C++, along with keywords such as virtual that allow for dynamic binding.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Wednesday, Professor Downing expanded on the idea of dynamic binding by demonstrating how methods such as operator==() and clone() can be overridden in child classes. An important attribute of overriding virtual methods is that the return type of the child method only has to be covariant with the return type of the parent method. On Friday, Downing explained the use of reflections in order to create instances of classes using strings to avoid using clunky if else statements.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to celebrate after finishing the Life project, since there will be no future Google form to submit and no more unit tests to be completed. In addition, make sure to keep up with the course material since the second exam is in less than 2 weeks.</p>
