---
layout: post
title: Week of 13 Sept
---
<p>Due to Labor Day long weekend, there were only two lectures in the third week of Object Oriented Programming. On Wednesday, guest speaker Chris Martin talked to the class about information regarding career opportunities at Bloomberg. An important part of the presentation was his advice on how to address recruiters at the Career Fair and at interviews. Martin stressed the importance of knowing background information about companies before attending their booths in order to make the most of the few minutes of conversation and establish a good first impression. Additionally, Martin explained the work being done at Bloomberg, and presented a quick preview of the Bloomberg Terminal that is used to track financial and business patterns. Alongside Martin’s focus on Bloomberg opportunities, I found his advice on preparing résumés and practicing for interviews very helpful, especially since the Career Fair was coming up in a couple of weeks.</p>
<p>On Friday, Downing explained the use of exception handling using the try-catch structure provided in C++. Although I have traditionally used if() statements for handling incorrect input, I found the syntax and ease of use of these error handling structures to be particularly appealing. In addition, the ability of exceptions to bubble up the call stack made the try-catch structure more versatile rather than simply using many if() statements to return error values to the calling function.</p> 
<p>Since the Collatz project was due on Thursday, the tip of the week is double checking the submission of a project in order to make sure that every file is turned in. Also, make sure that the Google Form is filled out correctly with the correct URLs and git SHA.</p>  
