---
layout: post
title: Week of 8 Nov
---
<p class="indented">The important aspect of the eleventh week of Object Oriented Programming was the deadline for the Darwin project on Thursday night. Thankfully my partner Will and I were able to finish the project in its entirety by Wednesday, but I would definitely say that this coding problem was more involved than the previous assignments of the course. As I mentioned in my previous blog post, the Darwin project required a good amount of design and planning prior to writing any code. Unlike the previous projects, the Darwin assignment restrained the use of getters and setters in order to preserve object oriented design and information hiding. All in all, I enjoyed designing and programming a project revolving around user defined species that could alter the outcome of the simulation.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">An important concept that Downing emphasized this week in lecture was defining the copy constructor and copy assignment operator in order to preserve the integrity of a class. A good example of this programming technique is with the vector class, which cannot operate correctly with the default copy constructor and assignment code provided by the compiler. Since the data of the vector is stored in the heap, the memory must be deep copied into the calling vector object in order to properly copy a vector by either a constructor or assignment operator.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to design carefully before beginning to write code, while at the same time realizing that the finished project may end up completely different than how it was originally envisioned. The initial design should provide a stable base from which ideas can be added as the software development progresses.</p>
