---
layout: post
title: Week of 25 Oct
---
<p class="indented">In the ninth week of Object Oriented Programming, Professor Downing went into more depth of how containers were implemented, using vector as an example. An important concept Downing covered was the difference between using the keyword new and using the standard Allocator object to obtain space dynamically. When the new keyword is used to initialize an array, the default constructor is called if one exists for an object type. This contrasts with the use of the Allocator, which simply obtains memory from the heap for a certain number of objects. Thus, the benefit I saw from using the Allocator object was to avoid passing over the vector internal array twice in order to initialize the objects. Another interesting idea that Downing presented was including the Allocator type as part of the template of the vector class, such that a user could use a custom made Allocator object as a memory supplier for the vector object. I found this idea particularly interesting, especially since it tied with the Allocator project.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">Along with the three interesting lectures involving containers and friends in C++, the third project for the course was due this week. Overall, I considered the project a good learning experience as it was my first time coding a heap manager. Additionally, my partner Nicole and I worked extremely well together since we made sure to plan out the methods using pseudocode in order to account for expected program behavior as well as corner cases involved in deallocating memory. I learned a lot from working with her, most importantly that planning before coding is always better than naively hacking away at the computer.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip-of-the-week is to gather a full understanding of how classes should interact with each other, whether it be using friends or inheritance in order to exchange information and behavior. Make sure not to rely on getters and setters, as will be evident in the next project of the course.</p>
