---
layout: post
title: Week of 27 Sept
---
<p class="indented">The fifth week of Object Oriented Programming was quite hectic, primarily because of the CNS Career Fair on Monday and the project due date on Thursday. Due to the Career Fair, I skipped Downing’s lecture on Monday to spend more time talking to recruiters. I found the recruiting event to be very beneficial to my goal of attaining an internship this coming summer, primarily because there were a plethora of companies that I could talk to in order to introduce myself and display my credentials. Additionally, talking to many company representatives gave me useful practice in how I should present myself to attain a good first impression. I made sure to follow up my conversations with recruiters by applying online and on Handshake in order to take full advantage of career opportunities present on campus.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Wednesday, a second guest speaker, Alex Menzies, came in to introduce the class to NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), a company that is forging new ground in its mission to explore space. In particular, Menzies presented the innovative partnership that JPL conducted with Microsoft that involved rendering 3D panoramas of photos taken from the Mars Rover using the HoloLens. I found the presentation to be fascinating since it allowed scientists to explore Mars without having to actually travel to the Red Planet. In addition, I find the potential of the Microsoft HoloLens to be enormous, especially if the technology is marketed to consumers for use with consumer and business applications.</p>
<p class="indented">Finally on Friday, Downing gave a lecture on templates in C++, which can be used to create algorithmic methods that can operate on iterators passed from various containers, such as lists, vectors, and queues. Based on Downing’s examples, I found templates in C++ to be particularly useful in creating methods to compare and operate on data structures of different types.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip-of-the-week is to utilize efficient time management strategies in order to balance the schedule between career activities and the Voting project, along with any commitments from other classes.</p>
