---
layout: post
title: Week of 15 Nov
---
<p class="indented">Week 12 of Object Oriented Programming brought about the introduction to the very last assignment of the class, called Life. This project emulates Conway's Game of Life, in which cells are place in a grid and follow rules that are akin to those related to evolution. Conway's Game of Life is an interesting case of cell automata in that seemingly random grid setups can bring about complex life forms such as spaceships and gliders. An important concept that must be understood to complete this project is inheritance, which is implemented differently in C++ than in Java. An important difference between the languages is the default binding for polymorphism between the parent and child classes. There are two types of binding: dynamic binding where the child's method is called and static binding where the assignment class's method is called. Static binding is default for C++ while dynamic binding is default for Java. In most cases of inheritance, since dynamic binding is usually the preferred setup, C++ has the keyword virtual to indicate that a method can be overridden in a child class.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Wednesday of this week, guest speakers from Atlassian came to class to give a talk about the different products created by the company, along with a variety of development strategies used to speed up the production of software, including agile and scrum. I enjoyed the presentation given by the Atlassian representatives, since it gives a good example of how program development in industry is conducted, and how it compares with development as prescribed in this class.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip-of-the-week is to learn the usefulness of pull requests. Pull requests are the de facto standard for merging code into the master branch, and are very useful for code review when working in groups.</p>
