---
layout: post
title: Week of 20 Sept
---
<p class="indented">This week in Object Oriented Programming, Professor Downing spent a good portion of lecture discussing the similarities and differences between pointers and references in C++. One important distinction that I did not know beforehand was that pointers could be declared dynamically, but references must be declared and initialized at the same time. Essentially, the values of pointers can be determined during run time, but the values of references must be initialized at compile time. However, references and pointers serve very similar roles in allowing the program to modify the actual contents of an entity rather than simply using a copy. This contrasts with Java, where no pointers can be accessed by the programmer, and objects exist primarily as references.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">Project 2, also known as the Voting project, was assigned this week. Unlike the Collatz assignment, the Voting project required the object oriented paradigm, which is defined by interactions between different types of objects. Downing suggested creating user defined types such as Candidates and Ballots to help structure and organize the code. A requirement of the project that I found somewhat tedious was feature tagging the optimized version of the code alongside the unoptimized version. I found this to be somewhat unnecessary since parts of the code would have to be reimplemented or revised with #ifdef macros in order to run both versions side by side.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to start the Voting project early. The assignment seems easy, but actually requires a decent amount of debugging to account for multiple corner cases that were tested on the UVa Online Judge.</p>
