---
layout: post
title: Week of 30 Aug
---
<p>In the first week of Object Oriented Programming, Professor Downing introduced programming tools which are vital to software development. These included the g++ compiler, the Google Test library, and the gcov utility for measuring program execution and coverage. These programming tools helped show me the importance of extensive testing on software in order to determine the reliability and performance prior to releasing the software for use by customers and businesses. </p>
<p>One of the main differences in Downing’s lectures compared to other professors is randomly asking students questions about the coding examples rather than simply explaining the concepts himself. I have found this style of lecturing to be helpful in increasing my attentiveness and digestion of the concepts and coding examples being presented, since I do not know when I will be called on to answer questions. In addition, many of the tools and programming practices that Downing has introduced are currently used in the tech industry, which will certainly be helpful when I take part in software development outside of the academic setting.</p>
<p>The tip of the week is the importance of using testing libraries rather than simply using asserts in test code. A failed assertion will cause the entire program to stop, which is unfavorable behavior when there are tests that still need to be evaluated. On the other hand, the Google Test framework will continue to run tests even when some have failed, and will provide a comprehensive summary of the test results after all tests have been executed.</p>

