---
layout: post
title: Week of 4 Oct
---
<p class="indented">Unlike the previous week, this week in Object Oriented Programming was far less busy, especially since there was no major assignment due. Instead, Professor Downing delved deeper into C++ syntax by introducing the concept of lambdas and closures. Lambdas are often viewed as simple anonymous functions that are declared at the location where they are used. I found lambdas to be particularly useful as shorthand comparator functions that can be passed in as an argument to other functions, such as all_of() or accumulate(). Closures are simply lambdas that can take in environment variables that exist at the location where the closure was defined.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">Another important C++ language feature that is not available in Java is operator overloading, in which a data type can overload its operators to exhibit different behavior. On Wednesday and Friday, Downing instructed the class to implement a RangeIterator object which iterates over a value of type T. In addition to creating the class, operators such as *, pre-increment, post-increment, and == would have to be overloaded to satisfy the behavior of the RangeIterator object as defined by the Google Tests. One thing I found somewhat confusing while working out a solution was the this keyword is a pointer rather than a reference to the current instance of the class. I found this somewhat counterintuitive, since C++ often tends to place more emphasis on references than pointers as the way to manipulate values directly in memory.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is learning more about how structs and classes should be used in a program. Unlike C, C++ allows structs to contain object methods and behave exactly as objects defined by classes. The only difference is the default visibility for structs is set to public, while classes have private visibility by default. Based on C++ coding conventions, structs should be used to encapsulate simple data and simple functions, whereas classes should follow the object oriented design of containing complex data and complex functions.</p>
