---
layout: post
title: Week of 6 Dec
---
<p class="indented">This blog post commemorates the very last week of Object Oriented Programming. It is amazing to reflect on all the different concepts I have learned over the duration of this course, such as inheritance, the STL, and iterators. Of all the things I learned in C++ from this class, I would say that templates were the most useful skill to learn, since they are so versatile and helpful when implementing generic classes in C++. Additionally, they are invaluable when implementing methods that use iterators of a generic type. Overall, I think this class was a good experience for me, primarily because I was able to understand many of the subtle syntax rules of C++ for future reference.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">One of the main aspects of the class that I did not like was the strict grading of the tests. In my opinion, it is somewhat unfair to expect students to write perfect code for five programming problems in 90 minutes, along with the fact that no compilers can be used to assist in code creation. Granted, partial credit is given when some of the written code is incorrect, but I believe that leniency in grading is a reasonable expectation to have when taking these class tests. Additionally, taking the second midterm while Hotline Bling was being played loudly in the class next door certainly did not help in keeping myself focused to catch any programming errors I made during the exam.</p>
<p class="indented">Staying on the topic of exams, I will say that taking the second midterm electronically was a much better experience than taking the first midterm on paper. The primary reason is that code deletion is much easier when using a keyboard compared to using a pencil and eraser.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week for this blog post is stop worrying about how you did on the OOP midterm and to start studying for finals.</p>
