---
layout: post
title: Week of 11 Oct
---
<p class="indented">The culmination of the seventh week of Object Oriented Programming was the first midterm on Thursday. The exam is essentially a group of coding problems that tests the ability of writing correct syntax and applying the concepts learned in class. Based on my experience, I found the test to be much better than expected, especially since past students had warned me of their experiences while taking the OOP class. All in all, I found the coding questions to be refreshing since the last time I took a coding test was back in Computer Architecture with Professor Young. Hopefully, my relief is not short lived in the case I end up doing worse than I thought, but that's an issue for next week.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Monday, Professor Downing demonstrated how to nest the Range_Iterator class within the Range class, which acts as a container for the numbers on the number line. Although the Range class is a very simple container class, it shows the importance of implementing an iterator class for use by clients when using the container class. This concept extends to the vector, list, and set classes implemented as part of the standard template library.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to take the time and effort to create a detailed cheat sheet for use on the exam, since it is easy to forget the exact method signatures for the various operator and algorithm signatures. In my case, I simply copied the cheat sheet of a fellow star student since I was too lazy to make my own. I guess that's why it's called a cheat sheet. </p>
