---
layout: post
title: Week of 17 Oct - 23 Oct
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>I worked with my team to finish phase one of the IDB project.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>There is not much in my way currently.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I will need to work with my team to figure out ways to use the API for phase two.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">In the ninth week of Software Engineering, Professor Downing went over the implementation of the Complex object in python, where each Complex object has a real and imaginary part stored to create a complex number. Some of the methods that were implemented were __add__(), __str__(), and __init__(). This lecture was reminiscent to many of the lectures in the Object Oriented Programming class, where Downing implemented a variety of data structures in C++. I found classes in python to be simple and straightforward for the most part, and saw the usefulness of objects even if python may be a scripting language.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Wednesday, Downing went over a relatively new topic known as relational algebra. This field involves using operations such as select and project in order to manipulate tables found within databases. The topic was introduced by having the class implement the methods select() and project() in python, where each table was represented as a list of dictionaries. Although I have never taken an official class on SQL, I was able to follow along since I have used SQL statements in some of my other classes, such as Network Security. Relational algebra will become very important during the implementation of phase two of the IDB project.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is <a href="http://www.howtogeek.com/167533/the-ultimate-guide-to-changing-your-dns-server/">this article</a> about changing the DNS server used on your router/computer. If the default DNS server used by your router/ISP fails due to an enormous DDOS attack, this article will go through the steps to change the DNS server configuration to use another DNS provider such as Google DNS or OpenDNS. </p>
