---
layout: post
title: Week of 5 Sep - 11 Sep
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>I finished and turned in my Collatz project, while making sure everything still worked on Travis, Sphere, etc.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>I will need to review the material I missed on Friday's class so that I am up to date when Monday's class starts.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I will begin working on the second project of the course with my programming partner.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">In the third week of Software Engineering, there was no Monday class due to the Labor Day holiday. On Wednesday's class, Professor Downing went over the various syntax rules pertaining to ints, lists, and tuples. What I found interesting and bizarre was the minor differences between the three structures when it came to operator functions, such as +=. Although python is a relatively simple language to pick up, this lecture showed me that there is much more to the language than I had originally thought. Additionally, I saw that the nuances discussed in this lecture could be very confusing at times, and these minor differences could be hard to track in a relatively large program.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">I was unable to attend the lecture on Friday, since I had to attend an all-day interview with the UTMB Galveston School of Medicine. My current plan is to attend medical school upon finishing my Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, but I do plan on incorporating some of the skills I have learned in computer science in areas such as medical research.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to start revising and editing the resume for the upcoming CNS career fair. I plan on attending this event, and will have to make sure my resume includes my summer internship along with information about any new side projects I finished the previous semester.</p>
