---
layout: post
title: Week of 3 Oct - 9 Oct
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>I took the first midterm of the class.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>There is not much in my way currently.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I will begin working on Project #3 of this class with my group.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">In the seventh week of Software Engineering, Professor Downing went over implementing a container that has the __iter__() attribute. In this case, the container was Range, and had two methods called __init__() and __iter__(). __init__() was straight forward, but __iter__() was different in that the container is never inexhaustible. Unlike the iterator object, calling __iter__() multiple times on a container should yield the same results. Downing showed two ways to implement the __iter__() method: one was by returning a Range_Iterator object and the other was by simply using yield. I find the ability to implement iterators with a simple method containing yield to be extremely useful and concise, since I no longer have to implement an inner class to create an iterator object.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Thursday, I took the first midterm of the class, which consisted completely of solving python code questions. I was happy that there was no reading questions, and I had enough time to complete the test. Additionally, the test questions were very reasonable since all the relevant material had been explained beforehand. My only complaint is using the text editor offered by Canvas. My main gripe with Canvas' editor is that there is no tabbing behavior within the editor, which forced me to simply type in the right number of spaces to emulate tabbing. I realize that moving away from Canvas would be difficult to undertake, and the only other way I could think of fixing this problem would be to use a different site with a different online editor to administer the test.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to review all the material posted on the Schedule webpage and develop possible test questions to help prepare for Software Engineering midterms.</p>
