---
layout: post
title: Week of 31 Oct - 6 Nov
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>My group finished and turned in the second phase of the IDB project.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>My team will have to start working on the next phase.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I plan on working with team to implement the next phase of the project, such as search functionality.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">In the eleventh week of Software Engineering, Professor Downing went over xml as a way of storing information for API calls on Monday's lecture. I have not worked much with xml, but I found it somewhat intuitive in some cases and confusing in others. The format of storing information is relatively straightforward, since every block of information is encapsulated with tags. However, the schema that defines the xml format can be confusing at times. This particularly applies to the xsd schema configuration. Fortunately, a more popular way of storing information is json, which is much clearer since it is composed primarily of lists and dictionaries. As a result, json is the format used for transferring information through API calls for my team's IDB website.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Friday, Downing went over the more complicated commands of SQL, which include keywords such as join as well as statements that involve subqueries. These commands are very powerful in organizing information in a variety of meaningful ways, but may require complicated SQL statements that may be somewhat difficult to understand at first glance. Fortunately, libraries such as SqlAlchemy can be used to write queries in a more familiar language such as python. </p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to start early on the individual phases of the IDB project. These phases take quite a bit of work and time, and my team made the mistake of starting almost a week after the second phase was assigned. These delays are often caused by other classes, such as Network Security, as well as the busy schedules of other team members when it comes to interviews, etc.</p>
