---
layout: post
title: Week of 29 Aug - 4 Sep
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>I worked on Project #1: Collatz, and implemented various optimizations to try to speed up the program.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>I need to make sure that I have included everything necessary for my Collatz repository so that I don't get penalized. Also, I will need to finish the readings on pair programming.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I plan to finish up the first project and continue learning about how python differs from other languages such as C++.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">In the second week of Software Engineering, Professor Downing explained the various optimizations that could be implemented into the Collatz program to improve speed and efficiency. Various mechanisms were used, but the one optimization that made the most impact on my program timings was the idea of tiling ranges. Essentially the maximum cycle lengths for each range of 1000 numbers are cached as an array in the program source code, which allows for the program to compute a maximum of a 1000 cycle lengths for each range given as input. I found this optimization to be particularly impressive, since I had not thought of this idea while writing up the Collatz program prior to Downing's lecture. </p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">In addition to Downing's lectures on Collatz, he gave us an exercise in finding bugs in a small program that computed the primality of numbers, along with the corresponding tests. I found this exercise to be helpful in understanding the minute details associated with python, and reinforced the idea that seemingly correct code can have bugs that are hard to notice at first glance. Even after writing many unit tests, there may be a possibility that a method or series of program statements may have a logic error that can cause a range of problems, from unexpected program behavior to security vulnerabilities.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is learning more about <a href= "http://www.hackcave.net/2016/07/riffle-better-tor-alternative-to.html">RIFFLE</a>, an alternative to Tor. Since studies have shown that Tor may not be as secure as previously thought, researchers at MIT have devised this new alternative that may be able to solve some of the problems with Tor. If you value anonymity on the internet, you should definintely check this out.</p>
