---
layout: post
title: Week of 12 Sep - 18 Sep
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>I started working on Netflix, the second project of this class, with my partner.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>I will need to make sure everything is working properly and submit the JSON file for the Netflix project on Canvas.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I will finish the second project and attend the CNS Career Fair.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">In the fourth week of Software Engineering, Professor Downing started the week on Monday with a description of Netflix, the second project for the class. The idea behind the project is to create a predictive algorithm that creates predictions for the ratings users will create when watching particular movies. After creating these predictions, the root mean square error (RMSE) is calculated to see statistical difference between the predicted and actual ratings that these users made on the movies they watched. I thought this project was interesting, and as my partner and I worked on it we discovered that completing the project was actually easier than it initially appeared.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Wednesday, Chris Martin came to class to discuss the background and opportunities at Bloomberg, where he is currently employed. Chris was the same speaker who gave a talk a year earlier during my Object Oriented Programming (OOP) class, and his lecture a year before was quite similar to this one. Overall I thought that Bloomberg seemed to be a good company to work for, and integrates well with finance for those who are interested in that area.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to research companies before attending the career fair. This way, recruiters will appreciate your research beforehand and consider you as a potentially good fit for the company. Additionally, it would be a good idea to have an idea for what you plan to say whenever you approach recruiters from different companies.</p>

