---
layout: post
title: Week of 26 Sep - 2 Oct
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>I started studying for the first midterm of the class.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>I need to make sure that I am ready for the test.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I will finish up studying for the test.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">In the sixth week of Software Engineering, Professor Downing started off with list comprehension, which is condensed python syntax for creating lists easily and efficiently. Additionally, Downing introduced a new concept known as generator. The main difference between list comprehension and generators is that list comprehension is eager when calculating values, whereas a generator is lazy and will only calculate the values as they are needed. Additionally, generators are a type of iterator whereas list comprehensions return lists, which are a type of container. I found generators to be a very interesting concept, since I had not seen an equivalent in other programming languages I have used.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Wednesday, Downing went over an important key word in python that is associated with generators: yield. The keyword yield allows a method to return a value before it is completed, and continue where it left off when the same method is called again. At first the concept was unintuitive, but I realized that this concept would allow for an easy implementation for iterators. When a method has a yield within its body, invoking the method returns a generator which can then iterate over the return values of the method. This concept would allow an iterator to be implemented simply by a method when iterating over the contents of a container. By including yield, python makes it easier to implement iterators, whereas an iterator would have to be implemented within a class for most other languages.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to go over all the code snippets on Downing's website and make sure you can write them yourself, since this will be the best way to prepare for the test. Additionally, try to come up with possible test questions that can help you further practice for the test, and create unit tests to make sure your code is correct.</p>
