---
layout: post
title: Week of 10 Oct - 16 Oct
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>I started thinking of ideas for the first phase of the IDB project.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>I will need to work with my group to finalize the idea for the first phase.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I will finish up the first phase and start thinking about the next phase.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">In the eighth week of Software Engineering, Professor Downing went over decorators, which I found to be very useful and applicable to many different cases. Essentially, a decorator "decorates" an existing function with additional functionality. This is accomplished by declaring the decorator as a function with an existing function as a parameter, and then declaring an inner function that utilizes the passed in function in some way. The added functionality can include important efficiency improvements such as lazy caching, and the same decorator can be applied to a variety of different functions that may need similar additional functionality. I found Wednesday's lecture to very interesting overall.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Monday, Downing went over the third project of the class, which would involve the first phase of the IDB project. This would include coming up with a good idea and creating a static website with various attributed pertaining to the idea. Additionally, various constraints were added, such as no entertainment; this made picking the idea a more involved process since entertainment is an easier idea to gather information about.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to prepare well for interviews. This includes reviewing notes about a variety of algorithms, since the topic of algorithms and complexity is a favorite among interviewers.</p>
