---
layout: post
title: Week of 28 Nov - 4 Dec
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>My group presented the IDB project to the class, and I took the second midterm of the class.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>This will be my final blog post for SWE, and nothing is in my way for this class.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I will wrap up my other classes and start my winter break.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">The last week of Software Engineering consisted of group presentations of their IDB projects. On Wednesday, my group presented our Wholesome Education website, and I felt that the presentation/demo went smoothly. I also enjoyed seeing the work of all the other groups, and many of the websites were outstanding with great UI design. Unlike the previous blog posts, I have dedicated this last post as my thoughts on the class as a whole. I can say with certainty that Professor Downing is a great lecturer, as I did after I completed his OOP class. Additionally, I can also say that my reasons for taking this class were also fully satisfied. These included getting a writing flag to graduate, and more importantly getting a better idea of the full stack programming methodology and web development. I had never really delved deep into web development before, and most of my work involving createing websites that consisted mainly of HTML and CSS files using some sort of website development tool such as Adobe Dreamweaver. The SWE experience gave me a much more solid understanding in how websites are developed, from setting up the infrastructure to making sure that the back-end part communicates properly with the front-end. I had never worked with Angular JS or a routing framework like Flask before, so this was a really great learning experience for me.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">In regards to the projects, I felt that they were all well structured and well designed. My only complaints for this class would be the daily quizzes, which I found to be the most annoying part of the class, as well as the lack of emphasis on development patterns such as Scrum or Agile. The inclusion of Scrum in the fifth project seemed to be out-of-place, especially since our group set up the planItPoker user stories after we had already started working on the project. I think one way to improve the inclusion of Scrum would be to include it for every phase of the IDB project, and have the groups create and assign the user stories before the project phase is released. This could potentially allow groups to get a better idea of who does what before group members start working on the phase. However, these are essentially minor complaints that did not seriously impact the satisfaction of this class.</p>
<p class="indented">Ultimately, this will be the last class I will take that is taught by Professor Downing. I am thankful that I have learned quite a bit from my two semesters of having him as a professor. My tip of the week is to strongly encourage anyone reading this blog to take SWE if they are interested in web development/software engineering.</p>
