---
layout: post
title: Week of 19 Sep - 25 Sep
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>I attended the CS Career Brunch and completed the Netflix project with my partner.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>There is not much in my way currently, but I am in the process of filling out full-time job applications.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I will begin studying for the first midterm of this class on October 6th.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">In the fifth week of Software Engineering, Professor Downing started the week on Monday by having the class implement the reduce() function in python. This built-in function allows for a binary operator to be called upon a list of elements with a starting seed. The implementation was straightforward but I liked how python's syntax for passing in functions was very intuitive. In other languages such as C, passing in functions as method parameters is much more convoluted. Additionally, Downing talked about algorithms should demand the weakest properties possible, while containers should implement the strongest properties. This is reminiscent of Object Oriented Programming (OOP), where these same two properties were a very important theme throughout the semester while programming in C++.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Wednesday, Alex Menzies from Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) gave a talk about software development, and went into detail about the work that JPL has done with Microsoft to map out the terrain of Mars using the HoloLens. I found Menzies' talk about software development with explanations on the Agile and Scrum development patterns to be very interesting and relevant to this software engineering class. Furthermore, the HoloLens tech demo was one of the best presentations on new technology that I have seen, along with the web application which cross referenced and mapped out the Mars terrain using various pictures taken by the Mars rovers.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to use resources such as Handshake to help in distributing your resume to various companies, especially for the companies that you did not have the opportunity to talk to during the career fair. Additionally, look into various interview preparation strategies to perform better at any future interviews you may have. One good website that I found recently was <a href="https://www.codingame.com/">codingame</a>, which presents a visual simulation of the code you have written for a particular problem.</p>
