---
layout: post
title: Week of 7 Nov - 13 Nov
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>I worked with my group on the third phase of IDB.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>I need to work with my team to wrap up the last phase of the IDB project.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I will help my group members with completing parts of the project.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">In the twelfth week of Software Engineering, Professor Downing went over design patterns in software engineering. Essentially, the main idea was to use refactoring methods to provide a better structure for a piece of software, as well as make it more maintainable in the coming future. I find these ideas to be very important in the field of software engineering, and would be an important skill to develop in preparation for any king of software-related job.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Friday, Downing went over the somewhat confusing nature of inheritance. Inheritance is a software concept that seems good in theory, but can have sinister implications when applied in real life. Downing gave a good example of the problems related with inheritance, including the automatic calling of a parent's method if the parameters for the base class method change. The deviant code behavior caused by this change would lead to incorrect results for the program, and would be very difficult to debug. Ultimately, inheritance plays a role in some situations, but those are usually not very common.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to learn more about the different software development patterns utilized in industry. These patterns include ideas such as Agile and SCRUM. Becoming a successful software engineer requires many skills, and being able to work productively in a team is one of them.</p>
