---
layout: post
title: Week of 14 Nov - 20 Nov
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>I worked with my group to finish up the last phase of the IDB project.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>I will need to work with my group to finish the presentation/visualization page.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I will help my group with completing the remaining parts of the project.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">In the thirteenth week of Software Engineering, Professor Downing went over dynamic binding in Java in regards to inheritance. In particular, he stressed the possible drawbacks of using inheritance that involve accidentally calling function in the wrong class without any sort of error message. This is in contrast to the static binding in C++ that I learned about while taking the Object Oriented Programming class. After taking both SWE and OOP, I can learn to better appreciate the different types of inheritance patterns provided in various languages.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Friday, Downing went over reflections in Java. A similar lecture was given in OOP, but the main difference was that C++ does not have built in reflection, whereas python does. Additionally, I find the way that python has implemented reflection to be more intuitive compared to what is found in Java. Ultimately, I see reflection as a way to make code more extensible, in that new classes can be added without changing any of the existing code.</p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is to put effort into managing your time during the Thanksgiving period, since there is a good chance that multiple projects and tests may be due soon after the Thanksgiving break is over.</p>
