---
layout: post
title: Week of 24 Oct - 30 Oct
---
<b>What did I do this past week?</b><br>
<p>I started working on the second phase of the IDB project.</p>
<b>What's in my way?</b><br>
<p>I will need to coordinate with my team in order to finish the current phase.</p>
<b>What will I do next week?</b><br>
<p>I plan on finishing up the next phase of the project.</p>
<hr>
<p class="indented">In the tenth week of Software Engineering, Professor Downing went over the syntax involved with the construction of regular expressions. I have looked at regular expressions before, but have never actually used them in any computer programs I have written before. The initial learning curve has always been too steep for me to actually use them before, but Downing did a great job at teaching the basics of regex during the Monday lecture. Ultimately, I am sure my group will have to use regular expressions at some point during the IDB project.</p><!--more-->
<p class="indented">On Wednesday, a few representatives from Pariveda Solutions gave a talk about what their company does. Pariveda is centered around creating products and solutions for problems that other companies may be unable to complete themselves. This sort of business strategy is definitely unique and different from that of other companies. I feel that this approach to solving problems would appeal to those who may want to work on many different projects with different teams. </p>
<p class="indented">The tip of the week is <a href="http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2016/10/how-security-flaws-work-sql-injection/">this article</a> that describes SQL injections and how to protect against them. The main thing to take away from this article is to always use parameterized queries when accessing elements from a database rather than simply using string concatenation to build up SQL queries. This is especially true if part of the query is derived from user input. According to the article, SQL injections should be a thing of the past, but developers continue to program web applications using bad habits that open up the system to these types of attacks.</p>
